---
title: "Affine Varieties"
excerpt: "Affine varieties and their basic properties"

categories: [Math / Algebraic Varieties]
permalink: /en/math/algebraic_varieties/affine_varieties
sidebar:
    nav: "algebraic_varieties-en"

header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/Math/Algebraic_Varieties/Affine_Varieties.png
    overlay_filter: 0.5

date: 2026-03-12
last_modified_at: 2026-03-18
weight: 1
translated_at: 2026-05-22T04:00:01+00:00
translation_source: kimi-cli
---
In algebraic geometry, our goal is to study geometric objects defined by polynomials. Specifically, given a field $$\mathbb{K}$$ and a natural number $$n$$, we are interested in sets given by the expression

$$Z(f)= \{(x_1, \ldots, x_n) \in \mathbb{A}^n \mid f(x_1, \ldots, x_n) = 0\},\qquad f\in \mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$

This is the set of roots of the polynomial $$f$$ in $$\mathbb{K}^n$$. We usually take $$\mathbb{K}=\mathbb{C}$$, and what is especially nice about this assumption is that $$\mathbb{C}$$ is algebraically closed. However, in most cases this assumption is not very helpful, so we will work in a more general setting. Also, to avoid confusion, we will denote the variables of the polynomial $$f$$ by upright letters such as $$\x$$.

## Definition of Affine Varieties

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def1">**Definition 1**</ins> The *affine $n$-space* $$\mathbb{A}^n_\mathbb{K}$$ over a field $$\mathbb{K}$$ is the $$n$$-dimensional vector space $$\mathbb{K}^n$$.

</div>

When $$\mathbb{K}$$ is understood from context, we write simply $$\mathbb{A}^n$$. We call the elements of the affine space

$$\mathbb{A}^n=\{(x_1,\ldots, x_n)\mid x_i\in \mathbb{K}\}$$

*points*, and each coordinate $$x_i$$ the *$i$-th coordinate*. As mentioned above, the geometric objects we will study are those represented by the zero set $$Z(f)$$ of a polynomial $$f\in \mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def2">**Definition 2**</ins> For polynomials $$f_1, \ldots, f_k \in \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]$$, we define the *affine algebraic set* $$Z(f_1, \ldots, f_k)$$ defined by them as

$$Z(f_1, \ldots, f_k) = \{x=(x_1, \ldots, x_n) \in \mathbb{A}^n \mid f_1(x) = \cdots = f_k(x) = 0\}$$

Among affine algebraic sets, those that cannot be expressed as a union of smaller affine algebraic sets are called *affine varieties*.

</div>

In other words, an affine algebraic set is the set of common zeros of several polynomials $$f_1,\ldots, f_k$$. More generally, for a subset $$S$$ of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ we can define $$Z(S)$$ similarly to the above, and then by definition the ideal $$(S)$$ generated by $$S$$ in $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ satisfies the equation

$$Z(S)=Z((S))$$

Therefore, it suffices to care only about affine algebraic sets defined by ideals $$\mathfrak{a}$$.

In general, a space $$X$$ is called *irreducible* if it cannot be written as a union of two proper open subsets. ([\[Topology\] §Dimension, ⁋Definition 6](/en/math/topology/dimension#def6)) Thus our definition means that an irreducible affine algebraic set is called an affine variety. This is to handle, geometrically, a single connected object.

<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex3">**Example 3**</ins> Most of the geometric objects we know can be expressed by polynomials, so they all become examples of affine varieties.

1. Consider the affine variety $$Z(\x^2+\y^2-1)$$ defined in $$\mathbb{A}^2$$. By definition, this set consists of the points in $$\mathbb{A}^2$$ satisfying the equation $$\x^2+\y^2-1=0$$, so it represents the unit circle.
2. In general, for any affine space $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ and any polynomial $$f\in \mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$, $$Z(f)$$ defines a *hypersurface*.
3. Another important example is the *twisted cubic* defined over $$\mathbb{A}^3$$. This is the curve defined by the two polynomials $$\y-\x^2$$ and $$\z-\x^3$$ over $$\mathbb{A}^3$$, and it is in one-to-one correspondence with $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ via the parametrization $$(t,t^2,t^3)$$.
4. The affine space $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ itself and the empty set are affine varieties. This is obvious from $$Z(0)=\mathbb{A}^n$$ and $$Z(1)=\emptyset$$. This will be used importantly in [Proposition 4](#prop4) when defining the Zariski topology.

</div>

In the examples above, we saw that familiar geometric objects can all be written as affine algebraic sets as sets. However, to regard them as geometric objects, there must be a topological structure on them. Our only tool is polynomials, so we will use them to define a topological structure.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop4">**Proposition 4**</ins> The following hold.

1. $$Z(0) = \mathbb{A}^n$$,
2. $$Z(1) = \emptyset$$,
3. $$\mathfrak{a} \subseteq \mathfrak{b} \implies Z(\mathfrak{b}) \subseteq Z(\mathfrak{a})$$,
4. $$\displaystyle\bigcap_{i\in I} Z(\mathfrak{a}_i) = Z\left(\sum_i \mathfrak{a}_i\right)$$,
5. $$Z(\mathfrak{a}) \cup Z(\mathfrak{b}) = Z(\mathfrak{a} \cap \mathfrak{b}) = Z(\mathfrak{a}\mathfrak{b})$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

The first two statements were already discussed in [Example 3](#ex3).

To prove the third result, suppose $$\mathfrak{a}\subseteq \mathfrak{b}$$ and let $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{b})$$. Then $$f(x) = 0$$ for all $$f \in \mathfrak{b}$$, and since $$\mathfrak{a} \subseteq \mathfrak{b}$$, the desired equation holds in particular for all elements of $$\mathfrak{a}$$.

For the fourth result, that a point $$x$$ belongs to every $$Z(\mathfrak{a}_i)$$ means that $$f(x) = 0$$ for all $$i$$ and all $$f \in \mathfrak{a}_i$$. This is equivalent to every element of $$\sum_\alpha I_\alpha$$ being zero at $$p$$.

Now let us prove the last claim. First, suppose $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a})\cup Z(\mathfrak{b})$$. Then either $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a})$$ or $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{b})$$, and in either case every element of $$\mathfrak{a}\cap \mathfrak{b}$$ vanishes at $$x$$, so $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a}\cap \mathfrak{b})$$ holds.  
Now suppose $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a}\cap \mathfrak{b})$$. That evaluating any element

$$f_1g_1+\cdots+ f_kg_k,\qquad f_i\in \mathfrak{a}, g_i\in \mathfrak{b}$$

of $$\mathfrak{a}\mathfrak{b}$$ at $$x$$ gives $$0$$ is obvious.  
Finally, suppose $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a}\mathfrak{b})$$. If, contrary to the conclusion, $$x\not\in Z(\mathfrak{a})\cup Z(\mathfrak{b})$$, then there exist suitable $$f\in \mathfrak{a}$$ and $$g\in \mathfrak{b}$$ such that $$f(x),g(x)\neq 0$$. But if this holds, then $$f(x)g(x)\neq 0$$, contradicting the assumption that $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a}\mathfrak{b})$$.

</details>

First, the last result of the above proposition shows that for $$Z(\mathfrak{a}\mathfrak{b})$$ to be an algebraic variety, we must have $$\mathfrak{a}=1$$ or $$\mathfrak{b}=1$$. This gives one good intuition for looking algebraically at what an algebraic variety is.

More importantly, by the above proposition, if we declare affine algebraic sets defined on $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ to be closed sets, then the conditions of [\[Topology\] §Interior, Closure, and Boundary of Sets, ⁋Proposition 2](/en/math/topology/other_concepts#prop2) are all satisfied, and therefore a topology on $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ is uniquely determined. This is called the *Zariski topology*. By definition, any affine variety $$X$$ is a closed subset of some affine space $$\mathbb{A}^n$$, and we can define the topology on $$X$$ via the subspace topology induced from the topology on $$\mathbb{A}^n$$.

As a special example, consider the Zariski topology on $$\mathbb{A}^1$$. Any element of $$\mathbb{K}$$ is the zero set of the linear polynomial $$\x-x$$, so any singleton is a closed set, and therefore any finite set is a closed set. However, any element of $$\mathbb{K}[\x]$$ has at most finitely many roots, so in this topology (unless $$\mathbb{K}$$ is finite) the only infinite closed set is $$\mathbb{K}$$ itself. That is, the Zariski topology on $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ is the cofinite topology, from which we can observe that the Zariski topology need not be Hausdorff. More generally, an irreducible space cannot be Hausdorff, and since in our definition affine varieties are all irreducible, any affine variety is not a Hausdorff space. ([\[Topology\] §Dimension, ⁋Proposition 7](/en/math/topology/dimension#prop7))

Now let us examine the open sets of the Zariski topology.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def5">**Definition 5**</ins> For a polynomial $$f \in \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]$$, we define the *principal open set* $$D(f)$$ as

$$D(f) = \{x\in \mathbb{A}^n \mid f(x) \ne 0\} = \mathbb{A}^n \setminus Z(f)$$

</div>

The next proposition shows that principal open sets form a basis for the affine variety. ([\[Topology\] §Bases of Topological Spaces, ⁋Definition 1](/en/math/topology/topological_bases#def1))

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop6">**Proposition 6**</ins> For any open set $$U$$ of an affine variety $$X \subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$, there exists a family of principal open sets $$D(f_i)$$ satisfying

$$U = \bigcup_i (D(f_i) \cap X)$$

</div>

<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

By the definition of the Zariski topology, there exists a suitable ideal $$\mathfrak{a}\subset \mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ such that

$$X\setminus U=Z(\mathfrak{a})\cap X$$

Therefore

$$U = X \setminus (Z(\mathfrak{a}) \cap X) = X \cap (\mathbb{A}^n \setminus Z(\mathfrak{a}))$$

On the other hand, $$\mathbb{A}^n \setminus Z(\mathfrak{a})$$ is the set of points where $$f(x) \ne 0$$ for $$f \in \mathfrak{a}$$, so

$$\mathbb{A}^n \setminus Z(\mathfrak{a}) = \bigcup_{f \in \mathfrak{a}} D(f)$$

Therefore $$U = \bigcup_{f \in \mathfrak{a}} (D(f) \cap X)$$.

</details>

In general, an open subset of an affine variety need not be an affine variety, and indeed it is not. However, a principal open subset of an affine variety is always an affine variety.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop7">**Proposition 7**</ins> For an affine variety $$X \subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$ and a polynomial $$f \in \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]$$, $$D(f) \cap X$$ is an affine variety.

</div>

<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

Choose a suitable ideal $$\mathfrak{a}$$ so that $$X = Z(\mathfrak{a})$$. We will represent $$D(f) \cap X$$ as an affine variety in $$\mathbb{A}^{n+1}$$. For this purpose, let the coordinates representing $$\mathbb{A}^{n+1}$$ be

$$\x_1,\ldots, \x_n,\y$$

and consider the ideal

$$\mathfrak{b}=\mathfrak{a}+(1-f\y)$$

of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n,\y]$$. Then

$$Z(\mathfrak{b})=\{(x_1,\ldots, x_n, y)\in \mathbb{A}^{n+1}\mid x\in X, 1-f(x)y=0\}$$

Now from the condition $$1-f(x)y=0$$ we know that $$f(x)\neq 0$$ and $$y=1/f(x)$$. From this we obtain the following bijection

$$(x_1,\ldots, x_n,y)\mapsto (x_1,\ldots, x_n)$$

That this is a homeomorphism is obvious.

</details>

At this point, a fact we should note is that our definition of an affine variety strictly depends on the ambient space $$\mathbb{A}^n$$. For example, the principal open set $$D(\x)$$ of $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ is, according to the above proposition, an affine variety. However, we have already seen that the Zariski topology on $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ is the cofinite topology, so $$D(\x)$$ cannot be defined as the zero set of polynomials in $$\mathbb{K}[\x]$$. In fact, examining the proof of [Proposition 7](#prop7), the fact that $$D(\x)$$ is an affine variety is obtained from the isomorphism

$$D(\x)\cong Z(\x\y-1)\subseteq \mathbb{A}^2$$

Such an issue can confuse us somewhat when understanding regular functions, so we will revisit this issue in the relevant section.

## Nullstellensatz

The $$Z$$ examined in [Proposition 4](#prop4) sends algebraic objects, namely polynomials in $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$, to geometric objects, namely the zero sets defined by these polynomials. Conversely, we can also take a geometric object and associate algebraic objects to it.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def8">**Definition 8**</ins> For any subset $$X \subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$, we define the subset $$I(X)$$ of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ as

$$I(X) = \{f \in \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n] \mid f(a) = 0 \text{ for all } a \in X\}$$

</div>

Then it is obvious that for any subset $$X$$, $$I(X)$$ is an ideal of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$. Moreover, the following hold.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop9">**Proposition 9**</ins> For subsets $$X,Y$$ of $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ and any subset $$I$$ of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$, the following hold.

1. If $$X \subseteq Y$$ then $$I(Y) \subseteq I(X)$$.
2. $$I(\emptyset) = \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]$$.
3. If $$\mathbb{K}$$ is infinite then $$I(\mathbb{A}^n) = (0)$$.
4. $$X \subseteq Z(I(X))$$ always holds.
5. $$I \subseteq I(Z(I))$$ always holds.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

1. If $$X \subseteq Y$$ and $$f \in I(Y)$$, then $$f(a) = 0$$ for all $$a \in Y$$. In particular $$f(a) = 0$$ for all $$a \in X$$, so $$f \in I(X)$$.
2. Obvious.
3. If $$\mathbb{K}$$ is infinite, the only polynomial vanishing at every point is the zero polynomial.
4. If $$a \in X$$ and $$f \in I(X)$$ then $$f(a) = 0$$. That is, $$a \in Z(I(X))$$.
5. If $$f \in I$$ and $$a \in Z(I)$$ then $$f(a) = 0$$. That is, $$f \in I(Z(I))$$.

</details>

Thus, $$Z$$ and $$I$$ define an antitone Galois connection. ([\[Set Theory\] §Filters and Ideals, Galois Correspondence, ⁋Definition 6](/en/math/set_theory/filter_and_ideal#def6)) Therefore, the compositions $$ZI$$ and $$IZ$$ of the two operators each define closure operators. In the case of $$ZI$$, this closure is actually the closure in the Zariski topology. This is because if $$X \subseteq Y = Z(J)$$, then $$I(Z(J)) \subseteq I(X)$$, and by condition 5 of [Proposition 9](#prop9), $$J \subseteq I(Z(J))$$, so $$ZI(X) \subseteq Z(J) = Y$$, making $$ZI(X)$$ the smallest Zariski closed set containing $$X$$. In the case of $$IZ$$, this is not immediately obvious; for this, the notion of the radical of an ideal is needed. ([\[Commutative Algebra\] §Properties of Localization, ⁋Theorem 8](/en/math/commutative_algebra/properties_of_localization#cor8))

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="thm10">**Theorem 10 (Nullstellensatz)**</ins> Let an algebraically closed field $$\mathbb{K}$$ and an ideal $$\mathfrak{a}\subseteq \mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ be given. Then

$$I(Z(\mathfrak{a}))=\sqrt{\mathfrak{a}}$$

holds.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

([\[Commutative Algebra\] §Nullstellensatz, ⁋Proposition 6](/en/math/commutative_algebra/nullstellensatz#prop6))

</details>

Broadly speaking, since from condition 5 of [Proposition 4](#prop4) we already have

$$Z(\mathfrak{a}^k)=Z(\mathfrak{a}\cap\cdots\cap \mathfrak{a})=Z(\mathfrak{a})$$

this result can be said to have been anticipated to some extent.

Meanwhile, since $$\mathfrak{a}\subseteq \sqrt{\mathfrak{a}}$$ holds for any ideal $$\mathfrak{a}$$, from the third condition of [Proposition 4](#prop4) we know that $$Z(\sqrt{\mathfrak{a}})\subseteq Z(\mathfrak{a})$$. But by definition, given any $$f\in \sqrt{\mathfrak{a}}$$, there exists a suitable $$r$$ such that $$f^r\in \mathfrak{a}$$. Therefore, if $$x\in Z(\mathfrak{a})$$ then it must be in $$Z(\sqrt{\mathfrak{a}})$$, and from this we know that $$Z(\mathfrak{a})=Z(\sqrt{\mathfrak{a}})$$. That is, the radical of an ideal can be thought of as giving the standard way to obtain the ideal when representing an affine algebraic set as the zero set of an ideal, and to distinguish the differences between them, one defines a *scheme*.

Now combining the fifth result of [Proposition 4](#prop4) with the above result, we can see that for $$Z(\mathfrak{a})$$ to be an algebraic variety, $$\sqrt{\mathfrak{a}}$$ must be a prime ideal. ([\[Commutative Algebra\] §Basic Notions, ⁋Definition 10](/en/math/commutative_algebra/basic_notions#def10)) That is, there exists a Galois correspondence between the irreducible closed algebraic sets of $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ and $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$.

## Coordinate Rings and Regularity

We can further extend the philosophy contained in the two-way correspondence $$Z$$, $$I$$. Specifically, the geometry of $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ contains, by its definition, the elements of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$. Conversely, given any point $$x=(x_1,\ldots, x_n)$$ in $$\mathbb{A}^n$$, we can think of the function giving the $$i$$-th coordinate as $$\x_i: x\mapsto x_i$$, and from this viewpoint all elements of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ can be viewed as polynomial functions defined on $$\mathbb{A}^n$$.

More generally, we define the following.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def11">**Definition 11**</ins> We define the *coordinate ring* $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$ of an affine variety $$X = Z(\mathfrak{a}) \subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$ as

$$\mathbb{K}[X] = \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n] / I(X)=\mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n] / \sqrt{\mathfrak{a}}$$

These elements are called *regular functions* defined on $$X$$.

</div>

The reason for defining the coordinate ring is to realize the core philosophy of algebraic geometry, namely the correspondence between the geometric object $$X$$ and the algebraic object $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$. All geometric information of $$X$$, such as points, relations among polynomial functions, inclusion relations of subsets, etc., are encoded in the ring structure of $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$, and this becomes the foundation for later translating morphisms between affine varieties into coordinate ring homomorphisms.

If $$X$$ is defined as the zero set of some polynomials, then $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$ is the collection of the remaining polynomial functions with these polynomial relations factored out. Just as in the case $$X=\mathbb{A}^n$$ examined above, elements of $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$ can be thought of as functions defined on $$X$$. Specifically, for an element $$\overline{f}\in \mathbb{K}[X]$$, the function

$$X\rightarrow \mathbb{K};\qquad x\mapsto f(x)$$

is well defined. Here, that this function is well defined means that the value $$f(x)$$ is unique regardless of the choice of representative of $$\overline{f}$$, and this is possible precisely because $$X$$ is defined as the zero set of $$I(X)$$.

Now we are ready to extend the one-to-one correspondence between prime ideals of $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1,\ldots, \x_n]$$ and closed subvarieties of $$\mathbb{A}^n$$ discussed earlier to an arbitrary affine variety.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop12">**Proposition 12**</ins> Let an affine variety $$X \subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$ be given. Then there exists a one-to-one correspondence between prime ideals of the coordinate ring $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$ and closed subvarieties of $$X$$ as follows.

1. For a prime ideal $$\mathfrak{p} \subset \mathbb{K}[X]$$, letting $$\tilde{\mathfrak{p}}$$ be the preimage of $$\mathfrak{p}$$ in $$\mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]$$, $$Z(\tilde{\mathfrak{p}}) \subseteq X$$ is a closed subvariety of $$X$$.
2. For a closed subvariety $$Y \subseteq X$$, $$I(Y)/I(X) \subset \mathbb{K}[X]$$ is a prime ideal.

The correspondences $$\mathfrak{p} \mapsto Z(\tilde{\mathfrak{p}})$$ and $$Y \mapsto I(Y)/I(X)$$ are inverse to each other.

</div>

The proof of this is essentially obvious from the fourth isomorphism theorem.

<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex13">**Example 13**</ins> In the case of the affine varieties examined in [Example 3](#ex3), it can be shown that the ideals $$(\x^2+\y^2-1)$$ and $$(\y-\x^2,\z-\x^3)$$ are radical. Therefore, the coordinate ring of the unit circle $$X = Z(\x^2+\y^2-1)$$ is $$\mathbb{K}[X] = \mathbb{K}[\x, \y]/(\x^2+\y^2-1)$$, and the coordinate ring of the twisted cubic $$C$$ is $$\mathbb{K}[C] = \mathbb{K}[\x, \y, \z]/(\y-\x^2, \z-\x^3) \cong \mathbb{K}[\x]$$.

However, in general the coordinate ring of a hypersurface $$Z(f)$$ is $$\mathbb{K}[Z(f)] = \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]/I(Z(f)) = \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]/\sqrt{(f)}$$, so when computing the coordinate ring one must determine whether the given ideal is radical.

</div>

Meanwhile, we pointed out earlier that the definition of an affine variety actually depends on the (closed) embedding $$X\subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$, and the problem caused by this arises here as well. Looking at the example of the principal open set $$X=D(\x)$$ of $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ used in that section, the correct coordinate ring of this affine variety must be computed not as a subset of $$\mathbb{A}^1$$, but as the subset $$Z(\x\y-1)$$ of $$\mathbb{A}^2$$, and then

$$\mathbb{K}[X]=\mathbb{K}[\x,\y]/(\x\y-1)\cong \mathbb{K}[\x,1/\x]$$

Keeping this in mind, the following definition can also be understood.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def14">**Definition 14**</ins> For any affine variety $$V\subseteq \mathbb{A}^k$$ and a function $$f:V\rightarrow \mathbb{K}$$ defined on it, $$f$$ is said to be *regular* at a point $$p\in V$$ if there exist a suitable open neighborhood $$D(h)$$ of $$p$$ and a polynomial $$g$$ such that $$f=g/h$$ holds on $$U$$. Here $$h$$ is a polynomial that does not vanish on $$U=D(h)$$.

</div>

Then under this definition, it would be natural to call a function regular at every point a regular function. The proof that these two definitions, [Definition 11](#def11) and [Definition 14](#def14), are equivalent may be somewhat tedious, but since the essential content is contained in the example examined above, we will omit the proof. The heart of the proof is to obtain [Definition 11](#def11) from [Definition 14](#def14), which is done by gluing together functions of the form $$g/h$$ on each $$D(h)$$.

## Morphisms Between Affine Varieties

Now we define morphisms between affine varieties. Since affine varieties are geometric objects defined by polynomials, it is reasonable that functions between them should also be represented by polynomials.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def15">**Definition 15**</ins> A function $$\varphi:X \rightarrow Y$$ between two affine varieties $$X \subseteq \mathbb{A}^n$$ and $$Y \subseteq \mathbb{A}^m$$ is called a *morphism* (or *regular map*) between them if there exist suitable polynomials $$f_1, \ldots, f_m \in \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]$$ such that it can be represented as

$$\varphi(a_1, \ldots, a_n) = (f_1(a), \ldots, f_m(a))$$

</div>

For example, we showed in [Example 3](#ex3) that the twisted cubic corresponds to $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ via $$t\mapsto (t,t^2,t^3)$$, and the above definition shows that this is a morphism between affine varieties.

Intuitively, since $$\mathbb{K}[X]$$ are functions defined on $$X$$, if a morphism $$X\rightarrow Y$$ is given, we could pull back regular functions on $$Y$$ to $$X$$ via composition with this morphism. This is one direction from geometric maps to algebraic maps. More important is the reverse direction, namely the fact that when a coordinate ring homomorphism $$\mathbb{K}[Y]\rightarrow \mathbb{K}[X]$$ is given, we can recover from it a geometric morphism $$X\rightarrow Y$$.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop16">**Proposition 16**</ins> A morphism $$\varphi: X \to Y$$ induces a coordinate ring homomorphism $$\varphi^\ast: \mathbb{K}[Y] \to \mathbb{K}[X]$$. Specifically, for $$\bar{g} \in \mathbb{K}[Y]$$,

$$\varphi^\ast(\bar{g}) = \overline{g \circ \varphi}$$

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

First we must show that $$\varphi^\ast$$ is well defined. If $$g, h \in \mathbb{K}[\y_1, \ldots, \y_m]$$ define the same function on $$Y$$, then $$g - h \in I(Y)$$. Since $$\varphi(X) \subseteq Y$$, for all $$a \in X$$ we have

$$(g \circ \varphi)(a) - (h \circ \varphi)(a) = (g - h)(\varphi(a)) = 0$$

That is, $$g \circ \varphi - h \circ \varphi \in I(X)$$, and therefore $$\overline{g \circ \varphi} = \overline{h \circ \varphi}$$.

Now that $$\varphi^\ast$$ is a ring homomorphism is obvious.

</details>

Thus, a morphism $$\varphi: X \to Y$$ induces a coordinate ring homomorphism $$\varphi^\ast: \mathbb{K}[Y] \to \mathbb{K}[X]$$. This means that $$X\mapsto \mathbb{K}[X]$$ is a contravariant functor from the category of affine varieties to $$\Ring$$. ([\[Category Theory\] §Functors, ⁋Definition 5](/en/math/category_theory/functors#def5))

Once the notion of a morphism is defined, the notion of an isomorphism naturally exists.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def17">**Definition 17**</ins> A morphism $$\varphi: X \to Y$$ is called an *isomorphism* if there exists an inverse function $$\psi: Y \to X$$ such that $$\psi$$ is also a morphism.

</div>

For example, the morphism $$t\mapsto (t, t^2, t^3)$$ from $$\mathbb{A}^1$$ to the twisted cubic $$C$$ is an isomorphism. This is because $$(x,y,z)\mapsto x$$ defines the inverse.

As we saw above, since $$X\mapsto \mathbb{K}[X]$$ defines a contravariant functor from the category of affine varieties to $$\Ring$$, it is obvious that isomorphic affine varieties have isomorphic coordinate rings. The next proposition shows that the converse also holds.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop18">**Proposition 18**</ins> A morphism $$\varphi: X \to Y$$ is an isomorphism if and only if $$\varphi^\ast: \mathbb{K}[Y] \to \mathbb{K}[X]$$ is a ring isomorphism.

</div>

In [Proposition 16](#prop16) we saw that a morphism $$\varphi: X \to Y$$ induces a coordinate ring homomorphism $$\varphi^\ast: \mathbb{K}[Y] \to \mathbb{K}[X]$$. Intuitively, $$\varphi^\ast$$ corresponds a function $$g$$ on $$Y$$ to the function $$g \circ \varphi$$ on $$X$$, which is the operation of pulling back geometric information from $$Y$$ to $$X$$. Therefore, if $$\varphi^\ast$$ is an isomorphism, the functions on both coordinate rings correspond perfectly to each other, so it is natural to expect that the structures of $$X$$ and $$Y$$ are essentially the same geometrically. The following proof rigorously implements this intuition.

<details class="proof--alone" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

It suffices to show the reverse direction. Suppose $$\varphi^\ast$$ is an isomorphism. Then $$\psi^\ast = (\varphi^\ast)^{-1}: \mathbb{K}[X] \to \mathbb{K}[Y]$$ exists.

Now let us define a morphism $$\theta: Y \to X$$ from $$\psi^\ast$$.

For each element $$\bar{\x}_i$$ of

$$\mathbb{K}[X] = \mathbb{K}[\x_1, \ldots, \x_n]/I(X)$$

we can consider $$\psi^\ast(\bar{\x}_i) \in \mathbb{K}[Y]$$. Write this as $$\bar{g}_i$$, and consider any representatives $$g_i$$ of these. Then we can define $$\theta: Y \to \mathbb{A}^n$$ by $$\theta(y) = (g_1(y), \ldots, g_n(y))$$, and by the definition of $$\mathbb{K}[Y]$$ this does not depend on the choice of representatives $$g_i$$. Now since $$\psi^\ast$$ is well defined, $$\theta(Y) \subseteq X$$, and therefore $$\theta: Y \to X$$ is a morphism. The rest is a straightforward calculation.

</details>

---

**References**

**[Har]** J. Harris, *Algebraic Geometry: A First Course*, Springer, 1992.  
**[Sha]** I. R. Shafarevich, *Basic Algebraic Geometry I: Zarieties in Projective Space*, Springer, 2013.  
**[Ful]** W. Fulton, *Algebraic Curves*, 2008. (Available online)
