---

title: "Graded Modules"
excerpt: ""

categories: [Math / Algebraic Structures]
permalink: /en/math/algebraic_structures/graded_modules
header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/Math/Algebraic_Structures/Graded_modules.png
    overlay_filter: 0.5
sidebar:
    nav: "algebraic_structures-en"

date: 2026-03-11
last_modified_at: 2026-03-11
weight: 204

---

We now define the notion of a graded module.

## Graded Modules

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def1">**Definition 1**</ins> For a commutative monoid $$I$$, let $$A=\bigoplus_{i\in I}A_i$$ be an $$I$$-graded ring and let $$M$$ be a left $$A$$-module. Then $$M$$ is called an *$$I$$-graded left $$A$$-module* if for any $$i,j\in I$$,

$$A_iM_j\subseteq M_{i+j}$$

holds.

</div>

Similarly, we define an $$I$$-graded right $$A$$-module. In particular, if we regard $$A$$ as a left $$A$$-module over itself, by [Definition 1](#def1), every graded ring is a graded (left) $$A$$-module over itself. If every element of $$I$$ is cancellable with respect to addition, then by [§Graded Rings, ⁋Proposition 2](/en/math/algebraic_structures/graded_rings#prop2), $$A_0$$ is a ring. Then from the above formula, it is clear that each $$M_j$$ becomes an $$A_0$$-module.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def2">**Definition 2**</ins> For two $$I$$-graded left $$A$$-modules $$M,M'$$, an $$A$$-linear map $$u:M \rightarrow M'$$ is called a *graded homomorphism* if $$u(M_i)\subseteq M_i'$$ always holds.

</div>

Through this, we can define the category $$\bgr_I\lMod{A}$$ of $$I$$-graded left $$A$$-modules. More generally, we define the following.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def3">**Definition 3**</ins> For two $$I$$-graded left $$A$$-modules $$M,M'$$, an $$A$$-linear map $$u:M \rightarrow M'$$ is called a *graded homomorphism of degree $$i$$* if $$u(M_j)\subseteq M_{i+j}'$$ always holds.

</div>

Then the graded homomorphisms in [Definition 2](#def2) are all graded homomorphisms of degree $$0$$. If every element of $$I$$ is cancellable, we can also define a *graded homomorphism of degree $$-i$$* by the condition

$$u(M_{i+j})\subseteq M_j',\qquad u(M_j)=0\text{ if $j-i\not\in I$}$$

However, note that when defining in this way, a bijective graded homomorphism of degree $$i$$ is generally not considered an isomorphism between $$I$$-graded left $$A$$-modules when $$i\neq 0$$.

This type of generalization is discussed in more detail in homological algebra.

## Graded Submodules

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop4">**Proposition 4**</ins> Let an $$I$$-graded left $$A$$-module $$M=\bigoplus_{i\in I} M_i$$ be given. Then for a submodule $$N$$ of $$M$$, the following are all equivalent:

1. $$N$$ is the sum of the $$N\cap M_i$$.
2. When any element of $$N$$ is decomposed into homogeneous elements, each of these elements also belongs to $$N$$.
3. $$N$$ is generated by homogeneous elements.

</div>

This proposition is a generalization of [§Graded Rings, ⁋Proposition 6](/en/math/algebraic_structures/graded_rings#prop6), and its proof is identical. Submodules satisfying this equivalent condition are called *graded submodules*. The following proposition is also a generalization of [§Graded Rings, ⁋Proposition 7](/en/math/algebraic_structures/graded_rings#prop7).

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop5">**Proposition 5**</ins> For a graded $$A$$-homomorphism $$u:M \rightarrow N$$ of degree $$d$$, the following holds:

1. $$\im(u)$$ is a graded submodule of $$N$$.
2. If $$d$$ is cancellable, then $$\ker(u)$$ is a graded submodule of $$M$$.
3. If $$d=0$$, the canonical bijection $$M/\ker(u)\cong\im(u)$$ defines an isomorphism between graded modules.

</div>
