---
title: "Field of Fractions"
excerpt: "Localization, ring of fractions, prime ideal"

categories: [Math / Algebraic Structures]
permalink: /en/math/algebraic_structures/field_of_fractions
header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/Math/Algebraic_Structures/Field_of_Fractions.png
    overlay_filter: 0.5
sidebar: 
    nav: "algebraic_structures-en"

date: 2024-05-08
last_modified_at: 2024-05-08
weight: 105
translated_at: 2026-05-29T16:03:58+00:00
translation_source: kimi-cli
---
## Ring of Fractions

In [\[Set Theory\] §Natural Numbers and Infinite Sets](/en/math/set_theory/natural_numbers), we defined the monoid $$\mathbb{N}$$ of natural numbers, which (apart from some technical issues) could be written in the language of set theory. Then $$\mathbb{Z}$$ was defined as the Grothendieck group of the commutative monoid $$\mathbb{N}$$. Thinking back to the number systems we learned in middle school, the next object we need to define is the set of rational numbers $$\mathbb{Q}$$.

If we forget the additive structure of $$\mathbb{Z}$$ and remember only its multiplicative structure, then $$(\mathbb{Z},\cdot,1)$$ is a commutative monoid. What we need to do is adjoin inverses, and since $$1/0$$ is undefined, we set $$S=\mathbb{Z}\setminus\{0\}$$ and consider the monoid of fractions from [§Grothendieck Groups, ⁋Definition 7](/en/math/algebraic_structures/Grothendieck_groups#def7) to obtain the multiplicative group $$\mathbb{Q}$$.

In general, this process is possible through the following theorem.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="thm1">**Theorem 1**</ins> Consider a commutative ring $$A$$ and a subset $$S$$ of $$A$$. Viewing $$A$$ as a multiplicative monoid, consider the monoid of fractions $$A_S$$. Then for the canonical morphism $$\epsilon:A \rightarrow A_S$$, there exists a unique additive structure satisfying the following two conditions.

1. The multiplicative structure on $$A_S$$ together with this additive structure makes $$A_S$$ a commutative ring.
2. $$\epsilon$$ is a ring homomorphism.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

Before beginning the proof, let us briefly review the construction from [§Grothendieck Groups, ⁋Definition 7](/en/math/algebraic_structures/Grothendieck_groups#def7). We consider the submonoid $$S'$$ of $$A$$ generated by $$S$$, and define an equivalence relation $$R$$ on the monoid $$A\times S'$$ by

$$(\alpha,\gamma)\equiv (\beta,\delta)\pmod{R}\iff \alpha\delta\zeta=\beta\gamma\zeta\text{ for some $\zeta\in S'$}$$

and define the quotient monoid $$(A\times S')/R$$ as $$A_S$$. We denote the element of $$A_S$$ with representative $$(\alpha,\gamma)\in A\times S'$$ by $$\alpha/\gamma$$; then $$A_S$$ still becomes a multiplicative monoid via the operation

$$\frac{\alpha}{\gamma}\frac{\beta}{\delta}=\frac{\alpha\beta}{\gamma\delta}$$

The canonical morphism $$\epsilon:A \rightarrow A_S$$ between two multiplicative monoids was defined by $$\alpha\mapsto \alpha/1$$, and the fact that this is a monoid homomorphism means that $$\epsilon$$ is a function preserving the multiplicative structure (once we show that $$A_S$$ is a ring).

That is, what we need to do is endow $$A_S$$ with an additive structure satisfying the two conditions of the theorem, show that this defined additive structure makes $$A_S$$ a ring, and verify that $$\epsilon$$ actually preserves this additive structure as well.

First, assuming that such an additive structure exists, let us show uniqueness. Any $$x,y\in A_S$$ can be written as $$x=\alpha/\gamma,y=\beta/\delta$$ for suitable $$\alpha,\beta\in A$$ and $$\gamma,\delta\in S'$$. Then we can write

$$x=\epsilon(\alpha)\epsilon(\gamma)^{-1}=\epsilon(\alpha\delta)\epsilon(\gamma\delta)^{-1},\qquad y=\epsilon(\beta)\epsilon(\delta)^{-1}=\epsilon(\beta\gamma)\epsilon(\gamma\delta)^{-1}$$

and therefore we must have

$$x+y=(\epsilon(\alpha\delta)+\epsilon(\beta\gamma))\epsilon(\gamma\delta)^{-1}=\frac{\alpha\delta+\beta\gamma}{\gamma\delta}$$

Now, taking a hint from the uniqueness proof, we define the additive structure on $$A_S$$ by the above formula. Then what we need to show is as follows.

1. This definition is independent of the choice of $$\alpha,\beta,\gamma,\delta$$. That is, suppose $$x,y$$ are written in the form $$x=\alpha'/\gamma',y=\beta'/\delta'$$. We need to show that the equality

    $$(\alpha\delta+\beta\gamma)/\delta\gamma=(\alpha'\delta'+\beta'\gamma')/\gamma'\delta'$$

    holds in $$A_S$$. Since $$\alpha/\gamma=\alpha'/\gamma'$$ and $$\beta/\delta=\beta'/\delta'$$, by definition there exist $$\zeta,\xi\in S'$$ satisfying $$a p' s = a' p s$$ and $$b q' t = b' q t$$. From this we can verify

    $$(\alpha\delta+\beta\gamma)(\gamma'\delta')(\zeta\xi)=(\alpha'\delta'+\beta'\gamma')(\gamma\delta)(\zeta\xi)$$

    and thus the desired equality holds.

2. The $$+$$ defined this way satisfies associativity. For any $$x_1=\alpha_1/\gamma_1,x_2=\alpha_2/\gamma_2,x_3=\alpha_3/\gamma_3$$,

    $$(x_1+x_2)+x_3=\frac{\alpha_1\gamma_2+\alpha_2\gamma_1}{\gamma_1\gamma_2}+\frac{\alpha_3}{\gamma_3}=\frac{(\alpha_1\gamma_2+\alpha_2\gamma_1)\gamma_3+\alpha_3(\gamma_1\gamma_2)}{\gamma_1\gamma_2\gamma_3}=\frac{\alpha_1\gamma_2\gamma_3+\gamma_1\alpha_2\gamma_3+\gamma_1\gamma_2\alpha_3}{\gamma_1\gamma_2\gamma_3}$$

    and similarly one can check that $$x_1+(x_2+x_3)$$ also has the value on the right-hand side.

3. Commutativity of $$+$$ is obvious because addition and multiplication in $$A$$ are commutative.

4. $$+$$ has an additive identity $$0/1$$. This is because for any $$x=\alpha/\gamma\in A_S$$,

    $$\frac{0}{1}+\frac{\alpha}{\gamma}=\frac{\alpha}{\gamma}$$

    holds.

5. Additive inverses always exist for $$+$$. For any $$x=\alpha/\gamma\in A_S$$, $$(-\alpha)/\gamma$$ satisfies

    $$\frac{-\alpha}{\gamma}+\frac{\alpha}{\gamma}=\frac{(-\alpha)\gamma+\alpha\gamma}{\gamma^2}=0$$

6. $$+$$ satisfies distributivity over multiplication. For any $$x=\alpha/\gamma,y_1=\beta_1/\delta_1,y_2=\beta_2/\delta_2$$,

    $$x(y_1+y_2)=\frac{\alpha}{\gamma}\left(\frac{\beta_1}{\delta_1}+\frac{\beta_2}{\delta_2}\right)=\frac{\alpha}{\gamma}\frac{\beta_1\delta_2+\delta_1\beta_2}{\delta_1\delta_2}=\frac{\alpha\beta_1\delta_2+\alpha\delta_1\beta_2}{\gamma\delta_1\delta_2}$$

    and

    $$xy_1+xy_2=\frac{\alpha\beta_1}{\gamma\delta_1}+\frac{\alpha\beta_2}{\gamma\delta_2}=\frac{\alpha\beta_1\gamma\delta_2+\alpha\beta_2\gamma\delta_1}{\gamma^2\delta_1\delta_2}$$

    and using $$1,\gamma\in S'$$ one can check that these two expressions have the same value. Similarly the equality $$(x_1+x_2)y=x_1y+x_2y$$ can be shown.

From the above we see that $$A_S$$ has a commutative ring structure. Finally, that $$\epsilon$$ is a ring homomorphism is sufficient to show that $$\epsilon$$ preserves addition, and this follows from

$$\epsilon(\alpha+\beta)=(\alpha+\beta)/1=\alpha/1+\beta/1=\epsilon(\alpha)+\epsilon(\beta)$$

</details>

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def2">**Definition 2**</ins> The ring obtained as above is called the *ring of fractions* of $$A$$ defined by $$S$$, and is denoted by $$S^{-1}A$$.

</div>

If $$S$$ was the set of cancellable elements of $$A$$, then it is obvious that $$\epsilon$$ is an injection, and thus we can think of $$A$$ as a subring of $$S^{-1}A$$. In this case, $$S^{-1}A$$ is called the *total ring of fractions* of $$A$$.

## Fields

The rational numbers $$\mathbb{Q}$$ have the following distinguishing feature from general rings.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def3">**Definition 3**</ins> A ring $$A$$ is called a *division ring* if $$A\neq0$$ and every nonzero element of $$A$$ has a multiplicative inverse. A commutative division ring is called a *field*.

</div>

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop4">**Proposition 4**</ins> For a ring $$A\neq 0$$, the following are equivalent: $$A$$ is a division ring, and the only left ideals of $$A$$ are $$0$$ and $$A$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

First suppose $$A$$ is a division ring. If a left ideal $$\mathfrak{a}\neq 0$$ is given, then there exists $$0\neq x\in \mathfrak{a}$$. Since the inverse $$x^{-1}$$ of $$x$$ exists in $$A$$,

$$1=x^{-1}x\in A\mathfrak{a}=\mathfrak{a}$$

and therefore $$\mathfrak{a}=A$$. Conversely, suppose the only left ideals of $$A$$ are $$0$$ and $$A$$. For any $$0\neq x\in A$$, consider the left ideal $$Ax$$ of $$A$$; then $$0\neq x\in Ax$$, so $$Ax\neq 0$$. Since the left ideals of $$A$$ are only $$0$$ or $$A$$, we must have $$Ax=A$$, and therefore $$1\in Ax$$. That is, there exists suitable $$\alpha\in A$$ such that $$\alpha x=1$$. Then $$\alpha\neq 0$$, and by the same logic there exists suitable $$\beta\in A$$ such that $$\beta\alpha=1$$. Now from

$$\beta=\beta1=\beta\alpha x=x$$

we see that $$\beta=x$$, and therefore $$\alpha$$ is the multiplicative inverse of $$x$$.

</details>

## Integral Domains

$$\mathbb{Q}$$ is by its definition the total ring of fractions of $$\mathbb{Z}$$. That this is a field is obvious by definition, and this can be extended as follows.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def5">**Definition 5**</ins> If elements $$\alpha,\beta$$ of a ring $$A$$ satisfy $$\alpha\beta=0$$ but $$\alpha\neq 0$$ and $$\beta\neq 0$$, then $$\alpha,\beta$$ are called *zerodivisors*. A ring $$A$$ is called an *integral domain* if $$A$$ is commutative, $$0\neq 1$$, and $$A$$ has no zerodivisors.

</div>

By definition, it is obvious that a subring of an integral domain is an integral domain. For any nonzero rings $$A,B$$, the product $$A\times B$$ can never be an integral domain, since

$$(1,0)(0,1)=(0,0)$$

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop6">**Proposition 6**</ins> The total ring of fractions of an integral domain $$A$$ is a field.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

From the assumption that $$A$$ is an integral domain, we know that $$S=A\setminus\{0\}$$. That is, any element of $$S^{-1}A$$ can be written in the form $$\alpha/\beta$$ for $$\alpha\in A$$, $$\beta\in A\setminus\{0\}$$. Here, for $$\alpha/\beta\neq 0$$ we must have $$\alpha\neq 0$$, so $$\beta/\alpha\in K$$ is also well-defined, and then $$\beta/\alpha$$ becomes the inverse of $$\alpha/\beta$$.

</details>

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def7">**Definition 7**</ins> The field $$S^{-1}A$$ obtained from [Proposition 6](#prop6) above is called the *field of fractions* of $$A$$, and is denoted by $$\Frac(A)$$.

</div>

## Prime Ideals

From the fourth isomorphism theorem for ring homomorphisms, we know that for any ring $$A\neq 0$$ and maximal left ideal $$\mathfrak{m}$$, the only left ideals of $$A/\mathfrak{m}$$ are $$0$$ and $$A/\mathfrak{m}$$ itself. Therefore by [Proposition 4](#prop4), $$A/\mathfrak{m}$$ is a division ring. Integral domains can also be characterized in a similar way.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop8">**Proposition 8**</ins> For a commutative ring $$A$$ and an ideal $$\mathfrak{p}\neq A$$, the following are all equivalent.

1. $$A/\mathfrak{p}$$ is an integral domain.
2. If $$\alpha,\beta\in A\setminus \mathfrak{p}$$, then $$\alpha\beta\in A\setminus \mathfrak{p}$$.
3. If $$\alpha\beta\in \mathfrak{p}$$, then $$\alpha\in \mathfrak{p}$$ or $$\beta\in \mathfrak{p}$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

Conditions 2 and 3 are contrapositives of each other, so it is sufficient to show equivalence with condition 1. First suppose $$A/\mathfrak{p}$$ is an integral domain. That is, if

$$(\alpha+\mathfrak{p})(\beta+\mathfrak{p})=0+\mathfrak{p}$$

then necessarily $$\alpha+\mathfrak{p}=0+\mathfrak{p}$$ or $$\beta+\mathfrak{p}=0+\mathfrak{p}$$. From this we see that if condition 1 holds then condition 3 holds. This argument also works in the reverse direction.

</details>

An ideal $$\mathfrak{p}$$ satisfying the above equivalent conditions is called a *prime ideal*. Since every field is an integral domain, every maximal ideal is a prime ideal. The converse does not hold; for example, one can easily check that the prime ideals of $$\mathbb{Z}$$ are only $$(0)$$ and those of the form $$p\mathbb{Z}$$ for a prime number $$p$$. Then $$(0)$$ is a prime ideal but not a maximal ideal.

Meanwhile, the following holds.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop9">**Proposition 9**</ins> For a ring homomorphism $$\phi:A \rightarrow B$$ between commutative rings $$A,B$$ and a prime ideal $$\mathfrak{p}$$ of $$B$$, $$\phi^{-1}(\mathfrak{p})$$ is a prime ideal of $$A$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

Suppose for contradiction that there exist $$\alpha,\beta\in A$$ such that $$\alpha\beta\in\phi^{-1}(\mathfrak{p})$$ but $$\alpha,\beta\not\in\phi^{-1}(\mathfrak{p})$$. Then $$\phi(\alpha)\phi(\beta)=\phi(\alpha\beta)\in \mathfrak{p}$$ but $$\phi(\alpha),\phi(\beta)\not\in \mathfrak{p}$$, contradicting the equivalence in [Proposition 8](#prop8).

</details>

Meanwhile, by the second equivalence in [Proposition 8](#prop8), if we view a commutative ring $$A$$ as a multiplicative monoid, then for its prime ideal $$\mathfrak{p}$$, the set $$A\setminus\mathfrak{p}$$ can be viewed as a submonoid of $$A$$. Therefore the ring of fractions $$(A\setminus \mathfrak{p})^{-1}A$$ is well-defined, and the only elements appearing in the denominators of this ring are those of $$A\setminus \mathfrak{p}$$. This is defined as follows.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def10">**Definition 10**</ins> For a commutative ring $$A$$ and a prime ideal $$\mathfrak{p}$$, we define the *localization* of $$A$$ at $$\mathfrak{p}$$ as $$(A\setminus \mathfrak{p})^{-1}A$$, and write it simply as $$A_\mathfrak{p}$$.

</div>

## Nilpotent Elements

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def11">**Definition 11**</ins> An element $$\alpha$$ of a ring $$A$$ is called *nilpotent* if there exists $$n>0$$ such that $$\alpha^n=0$$. If $$A$$ has no nonzero nilpotent elements, then $$A$$ is called *reduced*.

</div>

By definition, a nonzero nilpotent element is a zero-divisor. Therefore every integral domain is a (commutative) reduced ring. Moreover, restricting to commutative rings, we obtain the following.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop12">**Proposition 12**</ins> For a commutative ring $$A$$, the set $$\mathfrak{N}$$ of nilpotent elements is an ideal.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

If $$x\in \mathfrak{N}$$, then there exists $$n>0$$ such that $$x^n=0$$, and for any $$\alpha\in A$$ we have $$(\alpha x)^n=\alpha^n x^n=0$$, so we can show that $$\alpha x\in \mathfrak{N}$$.

Now we need to show that $$\mathfrak{N}$$ is closed under addition. Given any $$x,y\in \mathfrak{N}$$, suppose $$x^m=0$$ and $$y^n=0$$ for suitable $$m,n>0$$. Then

$$(x+y)^{m+n}=x^{m+n}+\binom{m+n}{1}x^{m+n-1}y+\cdots+\binom{m+n}{n}x^my^n+\binom{m+n}{n+1}x^{m-1}y^{n+1}+\cdots+y^n$$

and we can see that all terms on the right-hand side are $$0$$. From the above, $$x+y\in \mathfrak{N}$$.

</details>

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def13">**Definition 13**</ins> The ideal $$\mathfrak{N}$$ from [Proposition 12](#prop12) is called the *nilradical* of $$A$$.

</div>

By definition, $$A$$ being reduced is equivalent to the nilradical of $$A$$ being $$0$$. Meanwhile, if $$x\in \mathfrak{N}$$, then from the equation $$x^n=0$$ and the definition of prime ideal we see that $$x\in \mathfrak{p}$$ holds for every prime ideal $$\mathfrak{p}$$. That is, the inclusion

$$\mathfrak{N}\subseteq\bigcap_\text{\scriptsize$\mathfrak{p}$: prime} \mathfrak{p}$$

holds.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop14">**Proposition 14**</ins> For a commutative ring $$A$$ and its nilradical $$\mathfrak{N}$$,

$$\mathfrak{N}=\bigcap_\text{\scriptsize$\mathfrak{p}$: prime} \mathfrak{p}$$

holds.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

If $$x\not\in \mathfrak{N}$$, it is sufficient to show that $$x\not\in \mathfrak{p}$$ for some $$\mathfrak{p}$$. First consider the ring of fractions $$A_x=S^{-1}A$$ with multiplicative subset $$S=\{1,x,x^2,\ldots\}$$. Then we can check that the multiplicative identity $$x/x$$ of $$A_x$$ is necessarily different from $$0/1$$, and in particular $$A_x\neq 0$$. Now from [§Definition of a Ring, ⁋Theorem 9 (Krull)](/en/math/algebraic_structures/rings#thm9), a maximal ideal $$\mathfrak{m}$$ of $$A_x$$ must exist, and since every maximal ideal is a prime ideal, $$A_x$$ has a prime ideal. Now applying [Proposition 9](#prop9) to $$\epsilon:A \rightarrow A_x$$, we see that $$\epsilon^{-1}(\mathfrak{p})$$ is a prime ideal of $$A$$, and if $$x\in\epsilon^{-1}(\mathfrak{p})$$ then $$x/1\in \mathfrak{p}$$; but $$x/1$$ is invertible in $$A_x$$, so we would have $$\mathfrak{p}=A_x$$, a contradiction.

</details>


---

**References**

**[Bou]** Bourbaki, N. Algebra I. *Elements of Mathematics*. Springer. 1998.  

---
