---
title: "Open Sets"
excerpt: "Topological space, open sets"

categories: [Math / Topology]
permalink: /en/math/topology/open_sets
header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/Math/Topology/Open_Sets.png
    overlay_filter: 0.5
sidebar: 
    nav: "topology-en"

date: 2022-11-08
last_modified_at: 2022-11-08
weight: 1
translated_at: 2026-05-28T11:36:15+00:00
translation_source: kimi-cli
---
## Open Sets and Topology

Algebraic structures may not have well-defined notions such as distance that we usually think of when we call something a *space*. On the other hand, spaces of interest to mathematicians may differ from these commonly conceived spaces; for example, there are many spaces where it is impossible to assign a distance. In this post, we examine how to define a space in a certain way.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def1">**Definition 1**</ins> A *topology* defined on a set $$X$$ means a subset $$\mathcal{T}$$ of $$\mathcal{P}(X)$$ satisfying the following conditions.

1. $$\emptyset,X\in\mathcal{T}$$ holds.
2. The arbitrary union of elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$ belongs to $$\mathcal{T}$$.
3. The *finite* intersection of elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$ belongs to $$\mathcal{T}$$.

A set $$X$$ equipped with such a topology is called a *topological space*; in this case the elements of $$X$$ are called *points*, and the elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$ are called *open sets*.

</div>

Adopting the convention from [\[Set Theory\] §Union and Intersection](/en/math/set_theory/union_and_intersection), one can show that the two sets

$$\bigcup_{U\in\emptyset}U=\emptyset,\qquad\bigcap_{U\in\emptyset}U=X$$

must belong to $$\mathcal{T}$$ in the second and third conditions of the above definition, but it is customary to state the first condition explicitly to avoid confusion.

<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex2">**Example 2**</ins> For any set $$X$$, the smallest possible topology defined on $$X$$ is $$\{\emptyset,X\}$$. Indeed, the structure defined by this set satisfies conditions 1 through 3 of the definition, so it becomes a topological space. This is called the *trivial topology*. 

Conversely, the largest possible topology defined on $$X$$ is $$\mathcal{P}(X)$$. This also forms a topological space, and we call it the *discrete topology*.

</div>

In general, when there is no risk of confusion about the topology given on $$X$$, we use expressions such as <phrase>the topological space $X$</phrase> for simplicity.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def3">**Definition 3**</ins> Suppose two topologies $$\mathcal{T}_1$$ and $$\mathcal{T}_2$$ are given on some set and they are comparable by $$\subset$$. If $$\mathcal{T}_1\subset\mathcal{T}_2$$ holds for $$\mathcal{T}_1$$ and $$\mathcal{T}_2$$, then $$\mathcal{T}_2$$ is called a *stronger topology* than $$\mathcal{T}_1$$, and $$\mathcal{T}_1$$ is called a *weaker topology* than $$\mathcal{T}_2$$. 
</div>

For example, an *arbitrary* topology $$\mathcal{T}$$ defined on a set $$X$$ is always weaker than the discrete topology on $$X$$, and always stronger than the trivial topology on $$X$$. 

The best tool for giving a notion of far and near on $$X$$ is *distance*, but since spaces that can be given a distance are very few, a more generalized notion is needed. If we examine a kind of far-and-near defined by $$\mathcal{T}$$ through <phrase>how many open sets two points are commonly contained in</phrase>, we can tell a story similar to when a distance is given.

First, let us examine the case of the trivial topology. If $$X=\{x,y\}$$ and the trivial topology is given on $$X$$, then the two points $$x,y$$ of $$X$$ are completely equivalent from the viewpoint of a topological space. This is because the topological structure cannot be used to[^1] distinguish the two points $$x,y$$. If two points $$x,y$$ of a topological space $$X$$ are contained in exactly the same open sets, we say that these two points are *topologically indistinguishable*.

On the other hand, if we give the discrete topology to the same set $$X$$, the two points $$x$$ and $$y$$ become distinguishable in this topological space. This is because there exists an open set $$\{x\}$$ that contains the point $$x$$ but not $$y$$. From this perspective, we can think that in the trivial topology all points are stuck close together, whereas in the discrete topology all points are separated from each other. 

In the argument above, <phrase>an open set containing the point $x$</phrase> will be needed frequently hereafter, so it is good to give it a name as follows.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def4">**Definition 4**</ins> Given a topological space $$X$$, and let $$A$$ be an arbitrary subset of $$X$$. Any open set containing $$A$$ is called an *open neighborhood* of $$A$$. A subset $$S$$ of $$X$$ is called a *neighborhood* of the set $$A$$ if there exists a suitable open neighborhood $$U$$ of $$A$$ such that $$U\subseteq S$$.

</div>

In particular, when $$A$$ is a singleton $$\{x\}$$, the open neighborhoods and neighborhoods of $$A$$ are also called the open neighborhoods and neighborhoods of $$x$$, respectively. 

In many cases, it suffices to examine only open neighborhoods to study properties of topology, and in texts such as **[Mun]** open neighborhoods are simply called neighborhoods. However, in order to state several results in topology well, it is essential to distinguish them. In any case, this general setting is not particularly difficult, so we decide to distinguish them clearly.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop5">**Proposition 5**</ins> A subset $$U$$ of a topological space $$X$$ is an open set if and only if $$U$$ is a neighborhood of every $$x\in U$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

Rewriting the latter condition using [Definition 4](#def4), it is equivalent to:

> For every $$x\in U$$, there exists an open neighborhood $$V$$ of $$x$$ such that $$V\subseteq U$$.

First, if $$U$$ is an open set, then $$U$$ itself is an open neighborhood of $$x$$ contained in $$U$$, so there is nothing to prove. Thus it suffices to show the converse. Suppose for every $$x\in U$$, there exists an open neighborhood of $$x$$ contained in $$U$$, and to indicate the dependence on $$x$$ we denote it by $$V(x)$$. That is, $$V(x)$$ is an open set satisfying $$\{x\}\subseteq V(x)\subseteq U$$. Now, the fact that $$U$$ is an open set is clear from the equality

$$U=\bigcup_{x\in U}\{x\}\subseteq\bigcup_{x\in U} V(x)\subseteq\bigcup_{x\in U} U=U$$

</details>

## Neighborhood filter

Given a topological space $$X$$ and a point $$x\in X$$, let us define $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ as <phrase>the collection of all neighborhoods of $x$</phrase>.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop6">**Proposition 6**</ins> Let $$X$$ be a topological space. Then $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ satisfies the following properties.

1. Any set containing an element of $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ belongs to $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$.
2. The *finite* intersection of any elements of $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ again belongs to $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$.
3. Every element of $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ contains $$x$$.
4. For every element $$V\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$, there exists a suitable $$W\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$ such that for any $$y\in W$$, we have $$V\in\mathcal{N}(y)$$.

Conversely, suppose that for each element $$x\in X$$ of an arbitrary set $$X$$, a collection $$\mathcal{N}(x)\subseteq\mathcal{P}(X)$$ satisfying the above conditions is given.[^2] Then there exists a unique topology $$\mathcal{T}$$ on $$X$$ such that these $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ are exactly the collections of all neighborhoods of $$x$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

The first and third properties are obvious by definition.

To show the second property, let $$V_1,\ldots, V_n\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$ be given. Then there exist open neighborhoods $$U_1,\ldots, U_n$$ of $$x$$ such that $$x\in V_i\subseteq U_i$$. Now by the third condition of [Definition 1](#def1), their finite intersection $$U_1\cap\cdots\cap U_n$$ is also an open set, and therefore

$$x\in \bigcap_{i=1}^n U_i\subseteq\bigcap_{i=1}^n V_i$$

so $$\bigcap V_i$$ is a neighborhood of $$x$$. 

For the fourth property, we may take $$W$$ to be an open neighborhood of $$x$$ contained in $$V$$. 

Now we must show the converse. Suppose collections $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ satisfying the above conditions are given. Then by [Proposition 5](#prop5), the elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$ must satisfy the condition

> For every $$x\in U$$, $$U\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$.

From this, it is obvious that $$\mathcal{T}$$ must be unique.

To show existence, let $$\mathcal{T}$$ be the collection of all sets satisfying the above condition, and let us show that this collection satisfies the conditions of [Definition 1](#def1). First, it is obvious that $$\emptyset$$ and $$X$$ satisfy the above condition. Let $$(U_i)_{i\in I}$$ be elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$. Let $$U=\bigcup U_i$$ and pick an arbitrary $$x\in U$$. Then for some $$U_i$$ satisfying $$x\in U_i$$, we have $$U_i\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$ and $$U_i\subseteq U$$, so by the first condition $$U\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$, and therefore $$U\in\mathcal{T}$$. Similarly, one can show that the intersection of finitely many elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$ belongs to $$\mathcal{T}$$.

To complete the proof of existence, we must show that for the topological space $$(X,\mathcal{T})$$ thus constructed, $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ actually coincides with the collection of all neighborhoods of each point $$x$$. By the definition of $$\mathcal{T}$$, any open neighborhood $$U$$ of $$x$$ belongs to $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$, and therefore any neighborhood of $$x$$ belongs to $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ by the first condition.  
Conversely, let $$V$$ be an arbitrary set belonging to $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$. To show that $$V$$ is a neighborhood of $$x$$ in $$\mathcal{T}$$, we must find a suitable open neighborhood $$U\subseteq V$$ of $$x$$. Define $$U$$ as <phrase>the collection of all $y\in X$ satisfying $V\in\mathcal{N}(y)$</phrase>. 
- Since $$V\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$, it is obvious that $$x\in U$$.
- Pick an arbitrary $$y\in U$$. By the definition of $$U$$ we have $$V\in\mathcal{N}(y)$$, and from the third condition of $$\mathcal{N}(y)$$ we get $$y\in V$$. That is, $$x\in U\subseteq V$$. 
- Finally we must show that $$U\in\mathcal{T}$$. That is, we show that for every $$y\in U$$, we have $$U\in\mathcal{N}(y)$$. Then since $$V\in\mathcal{N}(y)$$, by the fourth condition there exists a suitable $$W\in\mathcal{N}(y)$$ such that for any $$z\in W$$, we have $$V\in\mathcal{N}(z)$$. Therefore $$z\in U$$, so $$W\subseteq U$$, and from this we know that $$U\in\mathcal{N}(y)$$. 

</details>

The first and second properties of the above proposition show that $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ is a filter defined on the ordered set $$(\mathcal{P}(X),\subseteq)$$, and the third property shows that this filter does not contain the empty set $$\emptyset$$. A subset of $$\mathcal{P}(X)$$ satisfying these three conditions is called a *filter defined on the topological space $$X$$*. In particular, the filters $$\mathcal{N}(x)$$ are called *neighborhood filters*.


---

**References**

**[Bou]** N. Bourbaki, <i>General Topology</i>. Elements of mathematics. Springer, 1995.

---

[^1]: That is, using the open sets that are elements of $$\mathcal{T}$$
[^2]: The second condition is understood to imply $$\bigcap_{V\in\emptyset} V=X\in\mathcal{N}(x)$$.
