---title: "Basis of a Vector Space"
excerpt: "Basis of a vector space, linear combination"

categories: [Math / Linear Algebra]
permalink: /en/math/linear_algebra/basis
sidebar: 
    nav: "linear_algebra-en"

header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/Math/Linear_Algebra/Basis.png
    overlay_filter: 0.5

date: 2021-10-10
last_modified_at: 2022-07-30

weight: 4
translated_at: 2026-05-28T11:36:15+00:00
translation_source: kimi-cli
---
In the previous post, we saw that every element of the $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$\mathbb{K}[\x]$$ can be expressed as a linear combination of elements of the set $$S=\{1,\x,\x^2,\ldots\}$$. If such a set $$S$$ is given, we can understand the properties of $$\mathbb{K}[\x]$$ by examining only the elements of $$S$$ instead of all elements of the vector space.

## Spanning Sets

We define this situation as follows.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def1">**Definition 1**</ins> For a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$, a subset $$S$$ of $$V$$ is called a *spanning set* of $$V$$ if, whenever any $$v\in V$$ is given, there exist suitable $$\alpha_1,\ldots,\alpha_n\in \mathbb{K}$$ and $$x_1,\ldots, x_n\in S$$ such that

$$v=\alpha_1x_1+\cdots+\alpha_nx_n$$

can be written.

</div>

In the previous post, we also defined linear combinations of infinitely many elements, and using this, the above definition is equivalent to saying that any element of $$V$$ can be written as a linear combination of $$S$$.

Any $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$ always has a spanning set. This is trivial because $$V$$ spans itself. However, in this situation, it is also clear that $$S$$ is too large to serve the original purpose of examining $$V$$ more conveniently. We will revisit the condition for choosing a *sufficiently small* $$S$$ shortly. First, rather than obtaining a spanning set $$S$$ from a given $$V$$, let us conversely find a vector space that has a given set $$S$$ as its spanning set.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def2">**Definition 2**</ins> For a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$, the smallest subspace of $$V$$ containing a subset $$S$$ of $$V$$ is called the subspace *spanned* by $$S$$, and is denoted by $$\span S$$.

</div>

In particular, if $$S$$ consists of a single element $$x$$, then all elements of $$\span\{x\}$$ are of the form

$$\alpha x,\qquad\alpha\in \mathbb{K}$$

so $$\span \{x\}$$ is also written as $$\mathbb{K}x$$.

The subspace $$\span S$$ is unique if it exists. If $$W,W'$$ are two subspaces satisfying the condition of [Definition 2](#def2), then by the minimality of $$W'$$ we have $$W'\leq W$$, and by the minimality of $$W$$ we have $$W\leq W'$$. Therefore, to justify the above definition, it suffices to show that such a subspace exists.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="lem3">**Lemma 3**</ins> Let $$(W_i)_{i\in I}$$ be a family of subspaces of $$V$$ for a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$ and a nonempty index set $$I$$. Then $$W=\bigcap_{i\in I} W_i$$ is a subspace of $$V$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

For arbitrary $$w_1, w_2\in W$$, we show that $$w_1+w_2\in W$$. Since $$w_1$$ and $$w_2$$ are each elements of $$W$$, for all $$i\in I$$, $$w_1,w_2$$ are elements of $$W_i$$, and therefore $$w_1+w_2\in W_i$$ holds for all $$i$$. Now by the definition of $$W$$ again, $$w_1+w_2\in W$$ holds.

Similarly, for arbitrary $$w\in W$$ and $$\alpha\in\mathbb{K}$$,

$$w\in W\implies w\in W_i\text{ for all $i$}\implies \alpha w\in W_i\text{ for all $i$}\implies \alpha w\in W$$

so $$W$$ is also closed under scalar multiplication, and $$0\in W$$ is trivial, so $$W$$ becomes a subspace.

</details>

Now, for arbitrary $$S$$, let $$(W_i)_{i\in I}$$ be the family of subspaces of $$V$$ containing $$S$$. This family is nonempty because it contains $$V$$. Therefore, the intersection $$\bigcap_{i\in I} W_i$$ is well-defined, and it can be seen that the space defined in this way satisfies the condition of [Definition 2](#def2).

The above argument is good for showing the existence and uniqueness of $$\span S$$, but it gives no information at all about what $$\span S$$ actually looks like. In the following lemma, the way of defining $$\span S$$ is less elegant, but it gives perfect information about the elements of $$\span S$$.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="lem4">**Lemma 4**</ins> $$\span S$$ is equal to the set of all linear combinations of elements of $$S$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

Let us denote the set of all linear combinations of elements of $$S$$ by $$\langle S\rangle$$. That is, all elements of $$\langle S\rangle$$ can be expressed in the form of a linear combination $$\alpha_1x_1+\cdots+\alpha_nx_n$$ for suitable $$x_1,\ldots, x_n\in S$$, and conversely all vectors of this form are elements of $$\langle S\rangle$$.

Let two elements $$v,w$$ of $$\langle S\rangle$$ be given by the following expressions

$$v=\alpha_1x_1+\cdots+\alpha_nx_n,\quad w=\beta_1y_1+\cdots+\beta_my_m$$

Then 

$$v+w=\alpha_1x_1+\cdots+\alpha_nx_n+\beta_1y_1+\cdots+\beta_my_m$$

so $$v+w\in \langle S\rangle$$. Similarly, for arbitrary scalar $$\gamma$$,

$$\gamma v=\gamma\alpha_1x_1+\cdots+\gamma\alpha_nx_n$$

so $$\gamma v$$ also belongs to $$\langle S\rangle$$. Therefore, since $$\langle S\rangle$$ is a subspace of $$V$$ containing $$S$$, by definition $$\span S\leq \langle S\rangle$$.

On the other hand, by [┬¦Subspaces, ŌüŗProposition 3](/en/math/linear_algebra/subspaces#prop3), any subspace containing $$S$$ must also contain linear combinations of elements of $$S$$, so $$\langle S\rangle\leq\span S$$ holds.

</details>

Although $$\span S$$ is the more commonly used notation in linear algebra, $$\langle S\rangle$$ is the more commonly used notation in most areas of mathematics, so from now on we will write the subspace generated by $$S$$ as $$\langle S\rangle$$.

## Linear Independence

Now we answer the question we postponed. That is, for a given vector space $$V$$, we want to find a suitable subset $$S\subseteq V$$ such that $$V=\langle S\rangle$$, but with $$S$$ having a certain minimality.

This concept of minimality cannot be explained simply by the size of the set. For example, considering the subset $$S=\{1,\x,\x^2,\ldots\}$$ of $$\mathbb{K}[\x]$$, this set satisfies $$\mathbb{K}[\x]=\langle S\rangle$$, but the following set

$$S'=S\cup\{1+\x\}$$

also satisfies $$\mathbb{K}[\x]=\langle S'\rangle$$ while $$S$$ and $$S'$$ have the same size as sets.

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def5">**Definition 5**</ins> For a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$, a subset $$S$$ of $$V$$ is *linearly independent* if, whenever for some finitely supported family $$(\alpha_x)_{x\in S}$$

$$\sum_{x\in S} \alpha_xx=0$$

holds, then necessarily $$\alpha_x=0$$ holds for *all* $$s$$.

</div>

Then

$$0=1\cdot1+1\cdot\x-1\cdot(1+\x)$$

so we can see that the set $$S'$$ is not linearly independent. This situation can be expressed as *linearly dependent*. More generally, the following holds.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="prop6">**Proposition 6**</ins> For a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$ and any subset $$S$$ of $$V$$, $$S$$ being linearly independent is equivalent to any element of $$V$$ being expressed as at most one linear combination of $$S$$.

</div>
<details class="proof" markdown="1">
<summary>Proof</summary>

First, if the latter condition holds, then there is at most one way to express $$0\in V$$ as a linear combination of $$S$$. However,

$$0=\sum_{x\in S}0x$$

so if $$\sum_{x\in S}\alpha_xx=0$$, then by uniqueness $$\alpha_x=0$$ always holds. Therefore $$S$$ is linearly independent.

To show the converse direction, assume for contradiction that $$S$$ is linearly independent but is expressed as two linear combinations of $$S$$

$$v=\sum_{x\in S}\alpha_xx=\sum_{x\in S}\beta_xx$$

Then since $$0=v-v$$,

$$0=v-v=\sum_{x\in S}\alpha_xx-\sum_{x\in S}\beta_xx=\sum_{x\in S}(\alpha_x-\beta_x)x$$

and since $$S$$ is linearly independent, by definition $$\alpha_x-\beta_x=0$$ holds for all $$x$$. This contradicts the assumption that $$\sum\alpha_xx$$ and $$\sum\beta_xx$$ are different expressions, so the proof is complete.

</details>

## Basis of a Vector Space

<div class="definition" markdown="1">

<ins id="def7">**Definition 7**</ins> For a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$, a set $$\mathcal{B}\subset V$$ is a *basis* of $$V$$ if $$\mathcal{B}$$ is linearly independent and $$\langle\mathcal{B}\rangle=V$$.

</div>

By [Lemma 4](#lem4) and [Proposition 6](#prop6) above, this is exactly

> Whenever any element $$v$$ of $$V$$ is given, there exist suitable $$x_1,\ldots, x_n\in\mathcal{B}$$, $$\alpha_1,\ldots, \alpha_n\in \mathbb{K}$$ *uniquely* such that
>
> $$v=\alpha_1x_1+\cdots+\alpha_nx_n.$$

In [\[Set Theory\] ┬¦Product of Sets](/en/math/set_theory/product_of_sets), we know that the family $$(\alpha_x^v)_{x\in\mathcal{B}}$$ is a function from $$\mathcal{B}$$ to $$\mathbb{K}$$. This is the function that takes $$x\in\mathcal{B}$$ and outputs $$\alpha_x^v$$, and is determined solely by $$v$$. Therefore, we briefly write the function value at $$x$$ as $$v_x$$ instead of $$\alpha_x^v$$.

Now we call the (finitely supported) family of coefficients $$(v_x)_{x\in \mathcal{B}}$$ the *coordinate representation in basis $$\mathcal{B}$$* of the vector $$v$$, and denote it by $$[v]_\mathcal{B}$$.

Let us look at some examples.

<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex8">**Example 8**</ins> The basis of the trivial $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$\{0\}$$ is $$\emptyset$$.

</div>

<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex9">**Example 9**</ins> Now, if we consider $$\mathbb{K}$$ itself as a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space, then $$\{1\}$$ becomes a basis of $$\mathbb{K}$$. For arbitrary $$\alpha\in\mathbb{K}$$, since $$\alpha=\alpha\cdot 1$$, this set spans $$\mathbb{K}$$, and also the only $$\alpha\in\mathbb{K}$$ satisfying $$0=\alpha\cdot 1$$ is $$\alpha=0$$, so the linear independence condition is also satisfied.

More generally, if we take any nonzero element of $$\mathbb{K}$$ and call it $$x$$, then $$\{x\}$$ becomes a basis of $$\mathbb{K}$$. Since $$x\neq 0$$, the multiplicative inverse $$x^{-1}$$ of $$x$$ exists, and therefore for arbitrary $$\alpha\in\mathbb{K}$$

$$\alpha=(\alpha x^{-1})\cdot x$$

holds, and also the only $$\alpha$$ satisfying $$0=\alpha\cdot x$$ is $$\alpha=0$$.

</div>

Given two fields $$\mathbb{K}'\supset \mathbb{K}$$, then $$\mathbb{K}'$$ naturally has the structure of a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space.

If $$\mathbb{K}'=\mathbb{C}$$ and $$\mathbb{K}=\mathbb{R}$$, then $$\mathbb{K}'$$ is an $$\mathbb{R}$$-vector space with the set $$\{1,i\}$$ as its basis. On the other hand, if $$\mathbb{K}'=\mathbb{R}$$ and $$\mathbb{K}=\mathbb{Q}$$, finding a basis of $$\mathbb{K}'$$ as a $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space is not easy. For example, the following set

$$\{\ldots,100,10,1,0.1,0.01,\ldots\}$$

is not a basis of $$\mathbb{R}$$ as a $$\mathbb{Q}$$-vector space.

Nevertheless, the following theorem holds.

<div class="proposition" markdown="1">

<ins id="thm10">**Theorem 10**</ins> Any $$\mathbb{K}$$-vector space $$V$$ has a basis.

</div>

The proof of this is sufficiently possible at the undergraduate level, but requires some set-theoretic knowledge, so we leave it for a separate post. Instead, let us look at a few more examples.

<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex11">**Example 11**</ins> For any field $$\mathbb{K}$$, the Euclidean $$n$$-space $$\mathbb{K}^n$$ has the following $$n$$ vectors

$$\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\\\vdots\\ 0\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}0\\1\\\vdots\\ 0\end{pmatrix},\ldots,\begin{pmatrix}0\\0\\\vdots\\ 1\end{pmatrix}$$

as its basis. We call these the *standard basis* of $$\mathbb{K}^n$$, and denote them by $$e_1,\ldots,e_n$$. Of course, the fact that there is a standard basis means that there are non-standard bases, and indeed

$$\begin{pmatrix}-1\\0\\\vdots\\ 0\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}0\\-1\\\vdots\\ 0\end{pmatrix},\ldots,\begin{pmatrix}0\\0\\\vdots\\ -1\end{pmatrix}$$

is also a basis of $$\mathbb{K}^n$$, and

$$\begin{pmatrix}0\\1\\\vdots\\ 1\end{pmatrix},\begin{pmatrix}1\\0\\\vdots\\ 1\end{pmatrix},\ldots,\begin{pmatrix}1\\1\\\vdots\\ 0\end{pmatrix}$$

can also be verified to be a basis of $$\mathbb{K}^n$$ from the definition.

</div>
<div class="example" markdown="1">

<ins id="ex12">**Example 12**</ins> $$\mathbb{K}[\x]$$ has the set $$\{1,\x,\x^2,\ldots\}$$ as its basis. On the other hand, $$\mathbb{K}[[\x]]$$ does not have this set as its basis.

</div>

---

**References**

**[Goc]** M.S. Gockenbach, *Finite-dimensional linear algebra*, Discrete Mathematics and its applications, Taylor&Francis, 2011.

---
